You guys will come back to the course so I'm going to go over a strategy that is one of your first go
to strategies or at least it should be.
This is something that I used at Sprint kick actually to get my first batch of clients.
So the idea here is that you need to use your affiliations what are you that affiliations can be really
anything.
It could be your college your university it could be a loose based affiliation like a country a state
a city.
It can be work groups it can be professional groups it can be your actual company that you've worked
for now or previously.
It can be membership into anything anything that you are associated with that is a great starting point
for looking for clients.
Now just briefly why does that work so well.
If I came to you and I was a development what we call vendor you're going to judge me in a lot of different
things right judgment or a portfolio you're going to judge me on what exactly I say we're going to judge
me on what work I've done in the past.
So you know judge me on whether or not you think it's a good fit and you think you can communicate with
me one of the things that you will inevitably judge that person based off of is whether or not they
have some sort of an affiliation with you.
Let's say I received two pitches from two people one person I went to college with and the other person
I have absolutely no association with.
I'm always going to give it to the person that I went to college with.
The way I see it is when you're pitching to people it's almost like a point system.
The more things you have working in your favor the more likely you are and to close that contract if
you have more and more and more points in your favor then you can eventually raise your price.
And that's how you start getting to the point where you get really picky about your clientele and picky
about how much you charge at the beginning.
You just don't have a lot of points.
So you want to look for people that have some easy affiliation with you because that gives you a leg
up on talking to them.
I got clients by looking at my college network and that's because people there have ideas and they're
looking for any excuse to use a vendor.
Big problem right now is that vendors are very saturated.
Tons and tons of development firms out there.
That's why it's important that you do try to at least specialize or have a good idea of where you're
going to find customers.
If someone came through and had some strong affiliation to you specifically that allows you to trust
them more and it allows you to give them preferential treatment.
So the way that you take advantage of this is you would just use that as a qualifying criteria for your
potential clients.
Then you go about teaching them pretty much in the same way you would otherwise but you're going to
focus more on making sure they understand what your affiliation is going back to the example I previously
used.
I actually just sent out an email to every single person I knew that was at my college because I used
my college e-mail address.
That was enough to get open rates.
And that was enough for people to trust me enough to actually have a conversation with me.
Now obviously there are pretty much run a range of different affiliations and their strengths.
Right.
Me coming up to someone and saying I'm American and you're American.
That's not a great affiliation not that it's a negative thing it's just that that's not very strong.
But if I live in the same city that could have a strong enough affiliation we have things in common.
We live in the same community.
And subconsciously you assume that there's something that you could potentially do in case something
went wrong.
So think about all the affiliations you have if you have some group of networks.
Anything Meetup groups.
Like I said professional networks any type of NGO or organization that you've ever participated in in
any time of your life try to use that as a launching point to get sales.
It's much easier to close sales and to get interest and to get them to trust you if they have some concrete
association with you.
That feeling of community is very strong.
OK guys see in the next picture.